# Introduction
Welcome to Learn JavaScript!

JavaScript is the most widely used programming language on the web and is used on most websites, including this one.

By the end of this course, you'll have a strong foundation in JavaScript. You'll be able to write full-fledged programs, make HTML and CSS dynamic, and write impressive web applications.

This unit has two parts:

1. Learn the building blocks of JavaScript
2. Do some fun stuff with those parts

Because this course starts with the building blocks of JavaScript, make sure to take notes and pace yourself. This foundation will take us through the rest of the JavaScript course.



# Types
The building blocks of JavaScript make up every program and line of JavaScript.

Just like a language has nouns, verbs, and prepositions, JavaScript has its own building blocks. Instead of calling them building blocks, however, developers call them data types.

There are three essential data types to know for now, and here is your first test of memorization (don't worry, we will practice):

1. String: Any grouping of words or numbers surrounded by single quotes: ` ``... '`or double quotes`" ... "`.
2. Number: Any number, including numbers with decimals, without quotes: `4`,`8`, `1516`, `23.42`.
3.Boolean: This is always one of two words. Either `true` or `false`, with no quotations.
Let's review: a string is any grouping of words, a number's a number, and a boolean is a ghostly halloween costume. Or no, that's false! It's either true or false.




# console
We can't do much programming with our knowledge of types right now, so let's build something cool. Let's learn how to ask JavaScript to talk to us.

To do this, we need two things:

1. A way to ask JavaScript to talk.
2. Something for JavaScript to say.
We can ask JavaScript to print words to the console with this line of code:


```JavaScript
console.log('Your message here.');
```


In human-speak, this is saying: "Hey console, please print/log this thing inside the parentheses. Bye, thanks!"


By writing this line, we've also solved the second thing we need: Something for JavaScript to say. We can put a String, Number, or Boolean (or any data type) inside the parentheses of a `console.log` statement.


# Math Operators
Don't worry, math does not need to be your strong-suit to learn JavaScript. There are just a few operations we'll need to know to make some awesome programs later in the course!).

JavaScript includes the general math operators that you can find on a calculator:

1. Add: `+`
2. Subtract: ``-``
3. Multiply: ``*``
4. Divide: ``/``
These all work how you might guess: `3 + 4` will equal `7`, `50 / 10` will equal `5`.

Let's use each one of these math operators.



# Math Operators II
Now let's generate a space fact while we learn a brand new operator called – drum roll please – the modulus.

The idea behind the modulus is to show you the remainder after you divide a number.

So, if you divide `13 / 5`, `5` goes into `13` two times, and there will be `3` remaining. A modulus, denoted by a `%`, would take `13 % 5` and return the remainder `3`.

How on Earth is this useful?

Let's ask a question a modulus can solve: What will the moon phase be one year from today?


# Random
As it turns out, JavaScript has some tricks up its sleeve to make our lives easier.

JavaScript has built in functions, which help us do everyday things. We'll learn more about functions later in the course, so don't worry about understanding what they are right now.

Sometimes it's necessary to generate a random number within a program. We can do that with this code:


```JavaScript
Math.random();
```



This code will return a random number between 0 and 1. JavaScript will generate a random number for us with this code.

To generate a random number between 0 and 50, we could multiply this result by 50, like so:



```JavaScript
Math.random() * 50;
```

The problem with this is that the answer will most likely be a decimal. Luckily, JavaScript has our back with another built in function called `Math.floor`. `Math.floor` will take a decimal number, and round down to the nearest whole number. It is used like this:


```JavaScript
Math.floor(Math.random() * 50);
```


In this case:

1. `Math.random` will generate a random number between 0 and 1.
2. We then multiplied that number by `50`, so now we have a number between 0 and 50.
3. Then, `Math.floor` will round the number down to the nearest whole number.
Let's utilize these two methods to generate a random number between 0 and 100.




# Comments
As we write JavaScript, we can create comments in our code.

Comments are lines that are not evaluated when the code runs. They exist just for human readers, in other words. Comments can be extremely useful when we're looking back at code we've written later on and for other people who will be looking at your code.

There are two types of code comments in JavaScript:

1. A single line comment will comment out a single line, and is denoted with two forward slashes ``//`` preceding a line of JavaScript code.


```JavaScript
// The first 5 decimals of pi
console.log('Pi is equal to ' + 3.14159);
```


A multi-line comment will comment out multiple lines, `and` is denoted with ``/*`` to begin the comment, and ``*/`` to end the comment.


```JavaScript
/*
console.log('All of this code');
console.log('Is commented out');
console.log('And will not be executed);
*/
```



# Review Types and Operators
Let's take one more glance at the concepts we just learned:

- There are three essential data types in JavaScript: strings, numbers, and booleans.
- We can write out anything to the console with `console.log`.
- We can do math with operators like ``+``,`` -``, ``*``, and ``/``.
- We can find the remainder after dividing two numbers with a modulus: ``%``.
- We can generate a random number with `Math.random`, then make it a whole number with `Math.floor`.
- We write a single line comment with ``//`` and a multi-line comment with ``/*`` and ``*/``.
You've just finished one of the toughest parts of this course, nice work!
