# Introduction to Control Flow

Now that we've got the parts of JavaScript, let's see what they can do. In this unit, we'll explore how we can take those parts, and create decision trees, games, and much more.

In programming, making decisions with code is called control flow.

For instance, if we were making a choose-your-own-adventure game, we'd need to program a way for a user to choose which plot line they'd like to pursue. Control flow statements enable JavaScript to make those decisions by executing different code based on a condition.

In this lesson, we'll learn how to make decisions with JavaScript and how it can control the program's flow.


# if/else Statements
If you think about what we've been doing so far, we've been writing instructions for computers.

That's all programming really is: a list of instructions for computers.

The main difficulty of being a developer is translating our ideas in human-speak into ideas in computer-speak.

Let's learn how we can ask JavaScript to think like us and make decisions like us.

Let's start with human-speak. Many decisions we make everyday boil down to this sentence in some form:

"If something is true, let's do option 1, or else, if it is false, let's do option 2."

This sentence looks fairly similar when we write it with JavaScript. See for yourself:


```JavaScript
var needCoffee = true;
if (needCoffee) {
    console.log('Finding coffee');
} else {
    console.log('Keep on keeping on!');
}
```



1. If the variable `needCoffee` is `true`, JavaScript will run one code block, and if a variable is `false`, it will run another.
2. `needCoffee` is the condition we are checking inside the `if`'s parentheses. Since it is equal to `true`, our program will run the code between the first opening curly brace ``{`` (line 2) and the first closing curly brace ``}`` (line 4). It will completely ignore the `else { ... }` part. In this case, we'd see ``'Finding coffee'`` log to the console.

Note: Code between curly braces are called blocks. `if`/`else` statements have two code blocks.
If we adjusted needCoffee to be false, only the else's console.log will run.
if/else statements are how we can process yes/no questions programmatically.



# Comparison Operators
`if`/`else` statements are made even more powerful with comparison operators.

There are two comparisons you might be familiar with:

Less than: ``<``
Greater than: ``>``
You may also recognize these:

Less than or equal to: ``<=``
Greater than or equal to: ``>=``
Comparisons need two things to compare and they will always return a boolean (`true` or `false`).

How can we use comparisons and an `if`/`else` statement to see if it's time to eat?



# Comparisons Operators II
There are two more extremely useful comparisons we can make. Often times, we might want to check if two things are equal, or if they are not.

1. To check if two things equal each other, we can use ``===`` (three equals in a row).
2. To check if two things do not equal each other, we can write ``!==`` (exclamation with two equals in a row).
Slow down here, this can be easily confused with creating variables. Variables use one equals sign ``=`` to assign a value to a variable. When you're comparing two variables, make sure to use three ``===``.

How can we utilize ``===`` or ``!==`` and an `if`/`else` statement to write a program to see whether a werewolf will turn into its wolf form this evening?


# else if Statements
`if`/`else` statements are either this or that for us right now. They answer questions that are either yes or no.

What can we do if we have a question that has multiple yes conditions, or multiple no conditions?

We can add more conditions to our `if`/`else` statement with: `else if`. Check out how this fits into our current knowledge of `if`/`else` statements:


```JavaScript
var stopLight = 'green';

if (stopLight === 'red') {
  console.log('Stop');
} else if (stopLight === 'yellow') {
  console.log('Slow down');
} else if (stopLight === 'green') {
  console.log('Go!');
} else {
  console.log('Caution, unknown!');
}
```



1. We created a variable named `stopLight` that is assigned to the String ``'green'``.

2. Then, there's an `if`/`else` statement with multiple conditions, using `else if`. `else if` allows us to find multiple states of the `stopLight` variable, and output different things based on its color.

3. The whole thing ends with the singular `else` we know and love. The `else` is a catch-all for any other situation. For instance, if the `stopLight` was blinking blue, the last `else` would catch it and return a default message.




# Logical Operators
So far, we've been able to translate certain thoughts into JavaScript code, like, "Are these things equal?" with ``===``, or, "Is one thing greater than another thing?" with ``>``.

In English, sometimes we say "both of these things" or "either one of these things." Let's translate those phrases into JavaScript with some special operators called logical operators.

1. To say "both must be true," we can use ``&&``.
2. To say "either can be true," we can use ``||``.
3. To say "I want to make sure this is the opposite of what it really is," we can use ``!``.
4. To say "these should not be equal to each other," we can use ``!==``.
For example:


```JavaScript
if (stopLight === 'green' && pedestrians === false) {
  console.log('Go!');
} else {
  console.log('Stop');
}
```


In the example above, we make sure that the `stopLight` is ``'green'`` and ``&&`` there are no `pedestrians` before we log ``'Go!'``.
If either of those conditions are false, we log ``'Stop'``.
Just like the operators we learned previously, these logical operators will return either `true` or `false`.

These logical operators are helpful when writing `if`/`else` statements, since they let us make sure multiple variables are true or false.



# switch Statements
Before we move on, let's circle back to `else if` statements.

Using `else if` is a great tool for when we have a few different conditions we'd like to consider.

`else if` is limited however. If we want to write a program with 25 different conditions, like a JavaScript cash register, we'd have to write a lot of code, and it can be difficult to read and understand.

To deal with times when you need many `else if` conditions, we can turn to a switch statement to write more concise and readable code.

Note: To a computer, a `switch` statement and an `if`/`else` statement are the same, but a `switch` statement can be easier for other humans to read. Part of being a good developer is writing code that both computers and other humans can read.

`switch` statements look like this:



```JavaScript
var groceryItem = 'papaya';

switch (groceryItem) {
  case 'tomato':
    console.log('Tomatoes are $0.49');
    break;
  case 'lime':
    console.log('Limes are $1.49');
    break;
  case 'papaya':
    console.log('Papayas are $1.29');
    break;
  default:
    console.log('Invalid item');
    break;
}
```



1. The `switch` keyword initiates the statement, and is followed by ``( ... )``, which contains the condition that each `case` will compare to. In the example, the condition is `groceryItem`.
2. Inside the block, ``{ ... }``, there are `cases`. `case` is like the `else if` part of an `if`/`else` `if`/`else` statement. The word following the first `case` is ``'tomato'``. If `groceryItem` equalled ``'tomato'``, that case's `console.log` would run.
3. `groceryItem` equals ``'papaya'``, so the first and second `case` statements are skipped. The third `case` runs since the `case` is ``'papaya'`` matches `groceryItem`'s value. This particular program will log out: ``'Papayas are $1.29'``.
4. Then the program stops with the `break` keyword. This keyword will prevent the `switch` statement from executing any more of its code.
5. At the end of each `switch` statement, there is a `default` condition. If none of the `case`s are true, then this code will run.



# Review Control Flow
Way to go! We just learned a lot of control flow concepts:

- `if`/`else` statements make binary decisions and execute separate code based on a condition.
- We can add extra conditions with to `if`/`else` statements with `else if` conditions.
- `switch` statements make complicated `if`/`else` statements easier to read, however they achieve the same result as `if`/`else` statements.
- Comparison operators, like ``<``,`` >``, ``<=``, and ``>=`` can compare two variables. After they compare, they always return either `true` or `false`.
- Logical Operators, like ``&&``, ``||``, ``!==``, and ``!``, can compare two variables to see if a certain condition exists:
``&&`` checks if both sides are `true`.
``||`` checks if either side is `true`.
``!==`` checks if both sides are not equal.
``!`` changes a variable that is `true` to `false`, and vice versa.
In the next lesson, we'll learn about functions, and how to write blocks of code that are reusable.
